Arthur Jones, member of Ravens’ Super Bowl team and brother of Jon and Chandler, dies

By Jeff Zrebiec
Oct. 3, 2025

Former NFL defensive lineman Arthur Jones, who played for three teams over a seven-year career and was a member of the Baltimore Ravens’ Super Bowl XLVII championship, died Friday, the Ravens announced. He was 39.
The cause of death wasn’t immediately known, but Jones had battled health issues in recent years.
“We are terribly saddened to learn of Arthur Jones’ sudden passing,” Ravens general manager Eric DeCosta said in a statement released by the team. “Arthur’s presence was a gift to everyone he encountered. His big, bright smile, infectious energy and eternal positivity created a presence that continuously uplifted others. He was kind, courteous and enthusiastic, always displaying a love for family, teammates and friends.”

Jones, a fifth-round pick by the Ravens in the 2010 NFL Draft, played four seasons with the team, starting 20 games. He became a key cog in the Ravens’ defensive line rotation during their Super Bowl season in 2012, finishing with 47 tackles and 4.5 sacks. He had a sack and a fumble recovery in the Ravens’ 34-31 victory over the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII.

With a wide and easy smile and a friendly disposition, Jones was a locker room and fan favorite during his time in Baltimore. He made teammates laugh with his sack dances, and he was active in a number of community initiatives. Jones won the Ravens’ “Good Guy” award in 2012, as voted on by reporters for his cooperation with the media.
He left Baltimore in 2014, signing a five-year, $33 million deal with the Indianapolis Colts. Jones struggled with injuries over three seasons in Indianapolis. He joined Washington in 2017, but he played only one game before going on injured reserve.
Jones retired in 2018, announcing his decision on his Instagram account by writing, “It’s time for me to continue my legacy off the field. Athletes always know this day will come and I’m blessed to share this news with a smile on my face.”
A Rochester, N.Y., native, Jones stayed close to home to play college ball at Syracuse. He spoke often about the importance of his family after his mother, Camille, passed away in 2017 at the age of 55 due to complications from diabetes. Jones’ oldest sister, Carmen, died of a brain tumor when she was 17 and Arthur was in the eighth grade.
Jones’ brother, Jon, was a former UFC star and heavyweight champion. His other brother, Chandler, played parts of 11 seasons in the NFL and was a four-time Pro Bowl selection as a pass rusher.